tim ferriss: hello, ladies and gentlemen, this is tim ferriss, and welcome to another episode of the tim ferriss show. many of you have been asking for more informal conversations like the one that i recorded with kelly starrett and dr. justin majer over many, many bottles of wine, which you can listen to at your leisure, versus the more formal, i suppose, interviews that i've done with people like cofounder and president of pixar, ed catmull. and you've asked for it, and therefore, here it is. this is a high-def audio recording of the random show. and the random show is effectively a catch-up  between two friends. and i am half of that conversation, and kevin rose, a dear buddy, is the other   he's a serial entrepreneur. he's built many different companies and products. he is a venture capitalist at google ventures. he's one of the best product guys in silicon valley, and very, very astute investor. but when we hang out and we do the random show, which is in video, so you will hear some references to visual things. and whenever you hear babe, by the way, that's in reference to kevin's wife, who is off-camera, daria.   you will hear some references to links and show notes and so onall of those notes and links can be found at fourhourworkweek.com/podcast, all spelled out, fourhourworkweek.com/podcast. and to support the show, as always, just go to the time ferriss bookclub, and you can find books that have had a tremendous impact on my life. there are four or five of them up right now at fourhourworkweek.com/books. and without further ado, i would like to introduce you, if you've never heard it before, to the random show. i hope you enjoy it, and thank you for listening  kevin rose: hello, friends, welcome to the random show. i am kevin rose.  tim ferriss: i'm tim ferriss.  kevin rose: and this episode number, graham?  graham: i forget.kevin rose: we don't know. but you know because it says it at the top of the youtube player.  tim ferriss: mm, indeed.  kevin rose: welcome! it's been a while.  tim ferriss: it has been what, two to three months at least?  kevin rose: it's been at least three months.  tim ferriss: at least. maybe four months.  kevin rose: something like that. lots happened in those months.  tim ferriss: a lot has happened.  kevin rose: my drinking experiment, which we'll get to in a little bit. don't want to jump right into that one.  tim ferriss: yeah, we can hold off on that.  kevin rose: there's a good debate there. but i have a list of stuff to go over today. do you want to start first today? you've got a good list.  tim ferriss: sure. we can start with, perhaps, a caveat. so it turns out i found out just a few days ago that i'm about 99 percent sure that i have lyme disease for the first time. so i grew up on long island. i go back every summer. and deer ticks carry the spirochete, it's a bacteria that cause the symptoms of lyme disease, which is really intense. i had dodged the bullet up to this point. everyone in my family has had it, as far as i know. and i started getting extremely swollen joints, to the point where it was painful to walk in the morning.  kevin rose: you just woke up one morning?  tim ferriss: woke up one morning, knees were extremely swollen.  kevin rose: had you discovered any ticks at that point or not?  tim ferriss: oh, i'd pulled off four or five ticks. but every time i go home in the summer, that's the case. and i usually, or i shouldn't say usually, but a lot of people develop bulls-eye circles, so expanding concentric circles around the bite, and then they go get it checked out because that's a symptom. i didn't have any of those rashes and i found out later that in a percentage of the people who get bitten and contract lyme, they don't show that. if you pull the tick off within the first, say, about - i think it's 16 to 24 hours of attaching to you, then you can typically prevent lyme. but my joints got so swollen, my elbows, my knees, so painful. my memory started being affecting - being affected, like formulating sentences and whatnot. so i might sound a little punch-drunk in this episode. if you're wondering why, lyme disease. so i'm on doxycycline and exploring a couple of other treatments for addressing it. but yeah, it's gnarly stuff, man. you gotta catch it early, or you can basically develop all the appearances of, say, cerebral palsy and things like that.  kevin rose: that's crazy. but if you catch it early, i mean, you'll be fine.  tim ferriss: should be fine. depends on who you ask. there's also -  kevin rose: i've heard sometimes that flare-ups happen later in the future and things like that?  tim ferriss: that's what some - there are a lot of diverging opinions about lyme disease. and so some people talk about chronic lyme disease. some people think it exists. other people think it doesn't exist. there's a lot of debate. so if any of you out there are experts in lyme disease, if you have recommendations or thoughts, please let me know in the comments, because i will certainly be on meds by the time you see this.  kevin rose: crazy. well, i hope you're gonna be okay. i mean, that's scary stuff. tim ferriss: it is scary. i mean, and i always thought it was a very minor thing because eastern long island, as far as i know, has the highest density of deer ticks on the face of the planet. and you can't really go walking outside in grass that's more than a few inches long without getting ticks on you. then i started looking at the symptoms and the effects of lyme disease if you don't catch it, and it's really bad. it can be a really debilitating disease. so i'm glad that i'm doxycycline.   and now, so you take these antibiotics. i hate taking antibiotics, and i'll make a statement that might surprise some of you. i would rather take the scary anabolic steroids like testosterone or something like that than very strong antibiotics, because i feel like it's kind of yin and yang - well, they're very different, but my point being that people look at, say, misunderstood and oversensationalized drugs like anabolics, say, which are kind of exaggerated to the point of like these reefer madness.  kevin rose: like back in the ô60s? yeah, like marijuana stuff like that.  tim ferriss: exactly, like the ô50s and ô60s, where if you smoke a joint, you're gonna run through your house and hack off all of your relatives' heads.  kevin rose: well, what was that movie you made me watch, bigger, faster, stronger, harder? whatever it's called?  tim ferriss: bigger, faster, stronger. the other ones, you can find at the castro on the street. but it was about all the myths about -  kevin rose: yeah, performance-enhancing drugs.  tim ferriss: fantastic documentary you guys should all check out. but antibiotics are prescribed in a very nonchalant way.  kevin rose: you get them all the time, no matter what you have.  tim ferriss: and you just - the importance of the microbiome and your gut flora is so understated. i really try to avoid antibiotics. so i'll be sort of seeding my gut. and by the way, the answer is not necessarily probiotics. this is something not many people knowbut i'll be doing a bunch more on this. so if you want a post about that, let me know. it takes a lot of time. if you're interested about how to properly seed your gut for optimal health, i'm doing a bunch of research on that.  kevin rose: speaking about seeding your gut for optimal health, this is actually a good segue.  tim ferriss: okay.  kevin rose: this is a really random way to start the show, but i guess it worksthere is like this gut project. have you ever heard of the gut project?  tim ferriss: is it called the gut project?  kevin rose: it's something like that. it's gut project - do you know what i'm talking about, babe? i ordered it in the mail. so basically, they send you - my doctor told me about it because i've had mild to medium upset stomachs for a really long time.tim ferriss: yeah, you've had stomach issues for forever.  kevin rose: and we were traveling to china. i'm on pepto-bismol nonstopand it depends on what i'm eating.   i've linked some of it to, sadly, beer consumption, and i think it might be tied to gluten in some way. but anyway, my doctor turned me on to this project that is like this completely nonprofitand they give you all these little test tubes with little tiny q-tips in it. and you send in - it's pretty discussing, -- little samples of your shit. and then they will do the full-on breakdown of all the bacteria.  tim ferriss: so is it just fecal samples, or are you swiping your armpit and your mouth?  kevin rose: you can do anything, your armpit, wherever you want, and they will send you the full. but they compare it to people who are healthy people who have ibs, people who have all different types of stuff, and they give you the full-on breakdown. you log in and it gives you all these stats about your bacteria versus other people's stomach bacteria.  tim ferriss: are you sure it's nonprofit?  kevin rose: it might be for-profit. i'm not -  tim ferriss: is it called ubiome?  kevin rose: no.  tim ferriss: oh. there's a company called ubiome also doing something very similar. i actually have a bunch of kits at home.  kevin rose: anyway, i'll put a link - i'll get a link in the comments. but you should check it out. it's not expensive, either. it's like 300 bucks.  tim ferriss: no, i have a bunch of kits at home from, i guess, a competitor called ubiome.  kevin rose: okay, cool.  tim ferriss: which is based out here. but the whole point being, you are effectively - and we don't have to go too deep into this. but you are a collection of bacteria. i mean, there are more bacterial cells in your body than human cells. kind of hard to believe, right? and people have attempted to eradicate bacteria, viewing them as germs and causes of disease, for ages, and approaching it in such a broad fashion is hugely deleterious to your health. and in fact, for those people out there, i don't remember the name of the articleyou would like this too, daria. there's an article in, i think it was the new york times magazine about people who had not showered in weeks or even years. and instead of using soap, or i think it's laurel sulphate, other very strong detergents, they take ammonia-eating bacteria and spray it onto their skin as a way of sort of cleaning themselves and maintaining optimal bacterial health on the skin, which is your largest organ. so not just in the gi tract, but on the skin.   really good article that i'm in the process of rereading because i'm going to be doing a lot with the microbiome. and we'll link to that in the show notes as well.  kevin rose: yeah, i want to check that out.  tim ferriss: yeah, it's really, really - and also a very well-written piece. it's pretty hilarious.  kevin rose: that's awesome.  tim ferriss: yeah, it's super, super fascinating stuff. and by the way, there are companies out there, big cosmetics companies that are patenting applications of, say, lactobacillus, which you find very commonly in probiotic supplements for topical applications. it doesn't really work. i mean, as far as i know, that's for ingestion and application in the gi tract. so where you apply a probiotic or prebiotic or anything like this makes a big, big difference. so don't believe the hype. anyway, so enough on that.  kevin rose: well, one more quick point. speaking about my stupid stomach issues, i have been reading a book called grain brain. have you read it yet, or have you heard about it?  tim ferriss: i haven't. i'm guessing there's grain brain, there's wheat belly  kevin rose: yeah. they're all in the same vein.  tim ferriss: i'd imagine they're pretty similar.  kevin rose: yeah. so i mean, that's what got me to - actually, i didn't tell you this yet, but it's been about two weeks now i've been gluten-free.tim ferriss: you just sent me a photograph today of your dog with a beer can balanced on his head.  kevin rose: that wasn't my dog. it was a japanese -  tim ferriss: ohh, it was a toaster doppelganger.  kevin rose: it was a toaster doppelganger, yeah. it was a japanese dog i found on [inaudible].  tim ferriss: ah, okay.  kevin rose: but i actually just got some gluten-free beer, some ipa. i haven't tried it yet, but i'm going to do it after this wine. but anyway, what's interesting is that i think that i had some gluten a couple days ago, and i woke up the next morning being mentally foggy a little bit. and it describes some of that, what's happening hereanyway, it was just one particular - i'm gonna go and try to do it for at least 60 days. they say until you really feel it is a couple months. so we'll see what happens.  tim ferriss: we're gonna come back to this in a second. so if you're interested in this kind of stuff, there is an article written on my blog - i'll link to it - by rob wolfe, which i headlined "how to keep feces out of your bloodstream," but it relates to grain consumption, leaky gut syndrome, and a host of other associated issues or factors.  kevin rose: cool.  tim ferriss: it's a very interesting read. if you're like, gluten-free, gluten this - what the fuck is gluten actually? and nine out of ten people who are gluten-free can't answer that - check out the blog post. so you're gonna go gluten-free for 60 days.  kevin rose: yeah. it's not that hard. it really isn't.  tim ferriss: so now speaking of things that are hard, i hate to bring this up so early. i'm curious to see what kind of debate you think this is gonna become. so you committed, last time we spoke, to go 30 days without alcohol.  kevin rose: that's right.  tim ferriss: and you failed to complete that 30 days. and the wager was $1000 to one's charity of choice.kevin rose: we spoke on the phone before i actually threw in the towel. you remember that conversation.  tim ferriss: i remember texting, and i still have the text thread. you're gonna try to pull something, kevin. you're challenging your spirit animal. do you remember what you said your spirit animal was?  kevin rose: the worm?  tim ferriss: the weasel.  kevin rose: you said that.  tim ferriss: i think you were drunk when you brought it up.  kevin rose: you said that. you said that.  tim ferriss: case in point.  kevin rose: listen. here's the deal. i went through some really tough times.   it had been three weeks of no drinking. and i'm not saying i didn't break the rules. i did. i had a glass of wine and it was wonderful. a couple glasses of wine. but what i'm saying is that i went through some tough times. we got protested in portland. people that don't know -  tim ferriss: that's because you're raising historic -  kevin rose: no, i'm landmarked. okay, i'm gonna take 30 seconds and explain this to the people that are watching this. basically what happened is my wife and i, we went up to portland, oregon. we fell in love with the town. it's a great city. i love the food scene, love that they have awesome cocktails out there. they've got hiking trails, they've got fishing, they've got everything that i would like to eventually one day have a place as a little retreat.  tim ferriss: notice the second thing you mentioned was excellent cocktailscontinue.  kevin rose: so we went up there. we found a place, and we found a place that we thought we were gonna remodel. it was an older place, older meaning over 100 years old   and ultimately, it turned out that the cost to remodel it was more or less on par with building something from scratch. so we proceeded to move forward and have the house taken down and build something new. we went through that process. the neighbors found out about it. they freaked out. they had had the easter egg hunt in the yard of the house for the last 20 years. it was a very beloved house to the neighborhood. but it was not historically significant. we took several contractors through, walked through. and the thing about historical homes is you have to be able to point to something in the house, like oh, that's the crown molding, or oh, this banister is historic in some way   the only thing they ever came up with - nothing with the house, except we found out the house had asbestos. the only thing that they came up with was that there was a prominent attorney, portland attorney, that had lived there at one point many, many years ago. this guy doesn't even have a wikipedia page. he was big in portland at some point, that random attorney. we wanted to move forward and take the house down because it's old.   and the neighborhood loved it, but it wasn't historic.  tim ferriss: you had a tough couple weeks. i got it.  kevin rose: they protested us. they put banners out there. there were people crying in the streets. it got -  tim ferriss: what?  kevin rose: there was old people crying the streets, neighbors and stuff.  tim ferriss: why are you so mean to old people?  kevin rose: at the end of the day, i'm not an asshole, my wife's not an assholewe sat there and we said - we threw our hands up and we said, you know what? it's time to abandon ship. and we sold the house back to one of the neighbors, and we went on, and now eventually, at some point, we'd like to find another place. but i don't know when. but anyway, that was the story around that. so all this shit is going down. there's a freaking change.org protest. i'm getting emails from it, and people are calling the reporters. and i'm not drinking during this time. and i'm calling tim up and i'm like, "tim, please, just one drink. it's been a long day." and you're like, "no, a deal's a deal, fucker" in the text.  tim ferriss: i think that's fair.  kevin rose: and you're like, you can break it if we can talk about it on the show. and so my ask -  tim ferriss: that's what we're doing right now.  kevin rose: -- is that you give me pro rata for the time served of that month, and let me pay the remainder to you.  tim ferriss: yeah. i'll give you 10x or nothing if you can go the next 30 days without booze.  kevin rose: no way. what charity do you want it to go to? i'm not giving it to you. i'm gonna donate it to a charity.  tim ferriss: i didn't ask you to give it to me. i don't want you to give it to me because then i'm gonna have to pay taxes on it and then give it to the charity anyway.  kevin rose: i'm just saying we should give it to charity if you want to give it to charity.  tim ferriss: i think you should give it to say -  kevin rose: don't say the portland historic society.  tim ferriss: kevin rose, ladies and gentlemen.  kevin rose: no, he said that to me. he said that on the phone.  tim ferriss: i didn't say it on the phone. you keep on bringing up these phantom phone calls.  kevin rose: or over text or something.  tim ferriss: the portland historic society, preservation society.  kevin rose: you said you were gonna do something like that. it was email or text or some shit.  tim ferriss: i think that's the proper thing to do. but in this case, just to prevent you from binge drinking for the next 30 days, since i know that's how you respond to stress. so we don't want that to happendonorschoose.org. 1000 gs to donorschoose.org.   kevin rose: whose name should i put it in?tim ferriss: you don't make it out to an individual. it's made out to donorschoose.  kevin rose: you can't say in memory of?  tim ferriss: in memory of? in memory of my lovely portland house? that's what you can put in the memoso donorschoose is, just real quick - first, a pro tip. for those of you who have any stock that is appreciated. if you're going to make charitable donations, in some cases - and i'm no tax attorney - but it makes sense to donate - i didn't realize this until very recently - appreciated stock. why? because if you take $1000 that you've earned, you're gonna have to pay income tax on that money. and then you give, say, that $1000 to charity. well, it costs you, then, 30 percent plus 30 percent and all that. now on the other hand, if you have stock that's appreciated and you have $1000 worth of that, you give the stock instead of cash to the nonprofit, and they take the full $1000 in value.  kevin rose: and you can write off that full amount?  tim ferriss: as opposed to the $700 that you would give them otherwise if you sold the stock and gave the cash to them.  kevin rose: that's the thing. so if you're sitting out there on some tesla stock or some crazy stock -  tim ferriss: whatever.  kevin rose: whatever it is, you're like, let me make my annual $1000 gift to this company, then boom. and they'll take it.  tim ferriss: and the embarrassing thing for me, i'm kind of flabbergasted it took me so long to figure this out. but i would go to donation pages on donorschoose.org, or charitywater, or any of these places, and they would have it very clearly indicated, if you want to donate stock, click here. and i always thought to myself, why would i ever want to donate stock? i never understood the rationaland that's it. you get 30 percent more to the charity as opposed to paying it in tax dollars, so it makes a lot of sense.  kevin rose: hm. cool.  tim ferriss: so anyway, yeah. donorschoose.org. check it out. i've been an advisor for a long time. they're endorsed by people like michelle obama, stephen colbert, oprah. it's a long list.  daria: what do they do?  tim ferriss: yeah, donorschoose, it basically provides funding. it allows you to fund projects in public schools in very high need areas.   so if they need, say, a new blackboard, or they've never been able to take the kids on a field trip to the aquarium, and so the kids want to be a marine biologist, whatever it is, you can then allocate funds specifically to classrooms of your choice. and you can search by zip code. so i've donated money to, say, stem, like science, technology, engineering, math projects in places that i've gone to school, or areas that i've gone to school, where i grew up. and i think you still get handwritten letters from the kids, thank you letters. it's amazing. so the first nonprofit to be on the cover of fast company for their 50 most creative companies in the world issue. so it's awesome. check it out.  kevin rose: sweet.  tim ferriss: so now, speaking of challenges, i'm about 10 days into my latest challenge.  kevin rose: it is ridiculous.  tim ferriss: now it seems ridiculous, but i want to provide some context for the seemingly absurd. so the challenge is called nob numb, and it's called that very deliberately.  kevin rose: remember when it was just a random name you came up with?  tim ferriss: yeah. no, i thought long and hard about this name.  kevin rose: so let's back up. you did a blog post about this, and you challenged your readers. and what was the challenge?  tim ferriss: so what i said, and i've said - actually, there's something in the last episode, is that going 30 days without alcohol and masturbating and porn's a close cousin, so ixnay on the porn as well, had a dramatic impact on everything from blood values, like free testosterone, to sleep quality, on and on and on. there's a laundry list.  kevin rose: what good is testosterone if you can't use it?  tim ferriss: well, i didn't say sex wasn't allowed. i said that masturbating wasn't allowed.  kevin rose: see, that's stupid.  tim ferriss: it's not stupid, though  kevin rose: it's the same thing. it's just your hand.  tim ferriss: it's not the same. no, you're married, so no offense, you've got kind of sex on demand, i assume. as for single guys with broadband, they've got porn on demand. and it turns into a compulsive behavior.  kevin rose: why screw them over? they're having a hard time.  tim ferriss: it's not a judgment call. what it is, is i'm thinking of compulsive behaviors that over time can be very detrimental.   and i think excessive porn viewing - check our your brain on porn. check it out.  kevin rose: okay, why not say this? why not just say no porn, masturbate all you want.  tim ferriss: because i think you need - you have a cache, just like a web browser, of all these ridiculous porn scenes in your head, and i think you need like a good two to four weeks to clear that stuff out, so that you're actually attracted to normal women and not crazy cyborg silicone craziness.  kevin rose: so what if one went and hired a masseuse that gave lotion snap.  tim ferriss: fine, you can have the -  kevin rose: that's fine?  tim ferriss: you can have the dragon roll. i mean, legality aside, if you want to have the rub and tug, then it's fine.  kevin rose: so why is that fine? because it's still porn, in a way.  tim ferriss: there's more involved in doing that. that's an edge case, and i don't think a lot of people are gonna do it.   but look. what i'm trying to provide people with, and so just to give you guys an idea. so it's 30 days without - no booze, no masturbating.  kevin rose: you should say no sex too. it's not the same  tim ferriss: it's not the same. i think sex is a healthy behavior. i don't think excessive masturbating is a healthy behavior  kevin rose: do people really excessively masturbate? i think you kind of just masturbate and you're kind of done. you don't really - you're not hitting it three times a day.  tim ferriss: i think some people are.  kevin rose: really?  tim ferriss: absolutely.  kevin rose: is that your go-to?  tim ferriss: no, i'm too lazy to do that. but we can talk about porn. we talked about porn a lot in the last episode. so if you want more porn, including some of my recommendations, check out the last episode.  kevin rose: that was weird that you put your recommendations in the blog post.  tim ferriss: oh, people loved it. they actually said -  kevin rose: no, because your favorite porn.  tim ferriss: do you want to check this out? so i mean, it's kind of weird. that guy, he was watching it, now i'm watching it. it's a little creepybut here's the thing. so one of the people who [crosstalk] [00:21:51].  kevin rose: i typed it in and i pulled it up, and i was like, dude, i'm watching tim's porn  tim ferriss: did you see? so somebody put a google trends screenshot. all right, i'll just tell you. it's momoko and anjelica with a j.  kevin rose: oh boy. don't watch it.  tim ferriss: and the google trends, it's like rr rr rr, whrrr! when you hit play, if that was a startup growth chart, they'd be like 50 million green where the fuck were we going with this? okay, so the challenge was to help people overcome obsessive behaviors and improve the quality of their lives, and also their ability to develop new habits by creating a community on lift, which is a behavioral change app. and i was actually introduced to that by ev williams, cofounder of twitter, who incubated, effectively, this companyand if you go on lift, so lift.do.  kevin rose: i use it all the time.  tim ferriss: almost 5000 people are live doing this nob numb challenge.  kevin rose: oh boy.  tim ferriss: women also.  kevin rose: that's a sad thread.  tim ferriss: it's not a sad thread. it's fucking fascinating.  kevin rose: are they flirting with each other and shit?  tim ferriss: there's a little bit, but i mean, i think probably half the people with female avatars are sweaty-palmed fat guys. so whateverwhen you're on the internet, nobody knows. but i think there are also quite a few women on there.   but i mean -  kevin rose: you never know.  tim ferriss: masturbating's, i think, more of a guy dilemma in a lot of waysthe point being, about 5000 people, and there already is really fascinating patterns emerging. so very, very common in multiple different threads, extremely vivid dreams.  kevin rose: yeah, well, there's no relief, dude. you're dreaming it.  tim ferriss: nothing impresses kevin rose. there's a whole long list. anyway, you can check it out. but i highly recommend, even if you're not gonna use lift for nob numb, check it out. and there are all sorts of things. flossing. it's the only thing that got me to floss regularly, and it's very, very simple. so that's that. but the challenge is ongoing. if you want to join me, that's why i'm having tea instead of wine, but.kevin rose: how's it going for you?  tim ferriss: it's going well. i would say that i had a pretty tough day today. i'm dressed up because i went to a memorial service for a close friend, seth roberts. you will be sorely missed   and really one of the grandfathers of self-experimentation, and certainly the quantified self movement of the last, let's say 20 years. but so yeah, people started drinking at about 1:00 pm todayand i really wanted to drink. i was like, god, what i wouldn't give for just a nice glass of wine. and i think that's when the challenge is most important. if i'm defaulting to alcohol to treat my stress, that's a pattern that i want to be able to interrupt. so i think that it's only in those moments that the challenge is a challenge. i mean, that's the whole point of it.  kevin rose: yeah. when i went those three weeks, there were certainly a lot of times where i was like, wow, it's been a long day. and i'm like, gosh, i'd love just a beer or something, a glass of something.  tim ferriss: i just noticed, especially around here, with social outings and whatnot, i remember just one day, i was like, god, i feel kind of slow and my head hurts a little. and i looked back at my calendar, and i was like, wow. i'm not drinking by myself, but i've been out to dinners or meetings.  kevin rose: dude, this is our life.  tim ferriss: five nights a week for two months. and at every single outing, i'm having two, three, four glasses of something.   kevin rose: this is me, but i had a work meeting last night on a saturday, and i went out with daria, and i went out and had a couple glasses of wine, and they were heavy spurs. and then we met up for dinner, and it was at a sushi place, and there was sake. had some of thatand then i just get home and i'm not hammered, but enough to where the next morning i woke up and i'm just like, god, that's not 100 percent. yeah  tim ferriss: so i would just say this, guys. this isn't a puritanical thing. it's not to make you amish or mennonite. i love drinking. and also, pretty fond of jerking off. so this is a 30-day experiment. so i would just say -  kevin rose: can they join in now, by the way? is it too late?tim ferriss: yeah, join in now. no, it's not too late, and i expect this thing will survive for much longer than 30 days, so.  kevin rose: what do you give people? what's the reward?  tim ferriss: i think it's -  kevin rose: is there kind of a gift?  tim ferriss: no, there is. if you join right now, it's just going to be the join the community, which is very strong and extremely interesting, on lift. for people who started at the beginning, which was august 1st, then we're offering - i think it's 1500 or 2000 bucks to the three most helpful people who complete the challenge   so they have to complete the 30 days, and then they have to help other people in the community do the same.  kevin rose: that's cool. the community support thing is huge. you need that.  tim ferriss: oh, it's amazing.  kevin rose: i could have used that when i was going through my 30 days. if someone was like, she started drinking after two weeks, she made it two weeks, then props, because she didn't have to do that at alland then after she caved and she's having a little wine or something, or she'd go out with her girlfriends and come back a little saucy. i'm like, mm, i kind of want a drink right now. but anyway, let's move on.  tim ferriss: move on.  kevin rose: so congratulations. good luck to you, sir. blue balls. all rightlet's talk about meditation.  tim ferriss: yeah.  kevin rose: so meditation is something that i have always wanted to get into. and if you've been a follower of my blog, or have seen when i did have a blog back in the day, you know that every single year, for my to-do list for the next year was to learn how to meditate or to get better at meditating. headspace, the app. i think we've mentioned it on here before. have we mentioned headspace on here before?  tim ferriss: i don't think so.  kevin rose: okay. so there's an app called headspace that is a guided meditation app that essentially - you've used headspace, or no?  tim ferriss: i haven't. i'm smirking because i feel a moral obligation to mention calm as well, as a competitor.  kevin rose: did you invest in calm?  tim ferriss: i didn't invest in calm, but a bunch of my close friends have.  kevin rose: i know the founder of calm.  tim ferriss: yeah, the founder, he's a smart guy. but headspace is the leader.  kevin rose: so i haven't invested in either one of these companies, but i will say that those are the two leaders, right? headspace is number onethey have a big huge community. they've been around for a lot longer. calm also has a great app. they're both awesome. so headspace is the one i kind of started getting into because lamer, who we all know, he is a big meditator, and he told me that he got hooked on headspace. so they have this thing called take 10, which is 10 days of 10 minutes of meditation per day. and it's completely guided, and it was really easy to do because 10 minutes isn't a big commitment. i just sat down at my office and i shut the door, and i put my headphones on, and i hit lay, and i went through 10 minutes. and i did that for 10 days. and i started doing more and more and more, and they graduate you to take 15, which is 15 minutes, then take 20. i did all of those for 20 days.   and so flash forward. you don't even know this, but i've done 92 sessions and 25 hours of meditation so far.  tim ferriss: that's great.  kevin rose: which is awesome. and i will say that it is certainly helping me in some really interesting ways. there are moments in the day now where normally, i would get stressed out or a little agitated. and i can finally use some of those principles and just kind of step back for a second, and realize that the anger doesn't exist out here. it's all in here. and i can just kind of just come to terms with that and let it go a little bit, and sit with it a little bit and let it go, which is really interesting. the other thing is, i'm now up to 20 minutes a day of meditation. and this only happens every once in a while, like every third one or something. but i'll get this moment where i forget that i'm meditating, but i'm still doing the practice and i'm following my breath in and out. and i have this perfect presence where my mind just does not think about anything.   i'm not really thinking about anything at all. my mind's just completely free. it's the coolest internal feeling that you could feel without taking some type of substance that i have ever come across. and mine has only lasted - i've only gotten these little windows of 20 to 30 seconds, and then my mind comes back online. but i can see for the first time, and it's been 92 sessions to get here, i can see for the first time a little glimpse of, whoa, that's what the pro meditators get hours of. and that's cool. it's pretty awesome, so.  tim ferriss: it's a big deal. i'm a huge proponent of meditation, and i wish there were a different label for it, quite frankly, because i think there's a lot of negative association or connotation with meditationthere's just too much historical use as it relates to hippies or a particular methodology.  kevin rose: hippies, religion. that's the beautiful thing about this headspace, is it's not tied to any religion at all.  tim ferriss: there are secular ways, if that's important to you, to practice thisand you could view it as mindfulness practice, or even just observational practice.   and what i mean by that is, i've been meditating for, i don't know, a year-and-a-half or two consistently.  kevin rose: how often  tim ferriss: today was twice a day. most days, it's just once in the morning.  kevin rose: how many minutes?  tim ferriss: i usually do it for 15 to 20.  kevin rose: awesome, dude. that's great. you must have seen some of the very similar results that i've seen.  tim ferriss: yeah, exactly the same. and what you become is - imagine if you are watching a movie of your thoughts projected onto a wall. and when you first start meditating, at some point, you're like, my god, is that really my brain all the time? it's just like a caged monkey on meth, just bouncing off the walls. it's insane. it's totally nuts. you remember, i sent this animated gift to daria of a cat trying to fight an iguana. do you remember the spastic kitten?  kevin rose: he's the weirdest guy to text. but you send the animated gifs all the time.  tim ferriss: and i was like, this is how i feel when i'm meditating. but what you start to observe, you start to be able to observe those thoughts and not just feel the thoughts. and then when you get angry, you're like, oh, that's interesting. kevin is getting angry, not me.  kevin rose: right. that's not me.  tim ferriss: for such and such a reason.  kevin rose: yeah. yeah, that's cool.  tim ferriss: and that separation of the actor and the observer is really fascinating.  kevin rose: it's really cool because you can realize that that's really not youthat's just this emotional little thing firing, hormones and the other kinds of shit causing this outburst that's really not your corethat's not who you are.  tim ferriss: there's also some great guided meditations on the website of sam harris. samharris.org. i also did two podcasts with sam. sam's a phd in neuroscience, a very experienced meditator.  kevin rose: oh, adam's gonna be working with him, right?  tim ferriss: oh, i hope so.  kevin rose: oh, he's not, okay.  tim ferriss: yeah, sam is brilliant. so sam and i did two podcasts. one is called drugs and the meaning of life, which is an essay read by sam.   i highly recommend it. and the other was a larger exploration and discussion of meditation, imaging in neuroscience, religion, all sorts of things. samharris.org has a bunch of guided meditations as well.  kevin rose: i love that we do these things because honestly, i have notes here of things that i'm gonna go check out. i always pick up little tidbits.  tim ferriss: no, it's great. any good books you've read recently?  kevin rose: i mean, other than grain brain, and then i'm starting to get into antifragile, which i -  tim ferriss: antifragile's a great booki'm biased because i know nassim pretty well. i've spent a decent amount of time with him. and i fell in love with the black swan. i thought that was a spectacular bookfooled by randomness, also very good. and i was -  kevin rose: fooled by randomness, man, i listened to it, and i got it. the problem i have with his books is i listen to them, and in the first 10 minutes, i'm sold. not the first 10 minutes, but the first hour of the audiobook, i'm sold, and i'm like, great, i'm sold. and then he just keeps going on and on and on. i'm like, where does this end?  tim ferriss: well, where i find - i'll play devil's advocate because i definitely know that type of book, but i didn't get that feeling from black swan, nor antifragile. antifragile's a bigger book.  kevin rose: i'm talking about fooled by randomness.  tim ferriss: yeah, okay, so yeah. so maybe that's the case. but black swan was introduced to me by matt mullenweg, developer of wordpress. now, i guess, ceo of automatic. and really, really had a huge impact. antifragile is a big book, and the gems are spread throughout. so you have to kind of pick and choose, absorb what is useful. but i thought the concept of, say, fragile, robust and then antifragile being the real opposite of fragile as being very, very interesting. so you have, say, fragile people who care about the minority who dislike their work, like politicians, right? and then you have, say, antifragile, who are the artists who care more about the minority who like their work, right? so it's sort of how you can actually become stronger in the face of chaos or adversity.   not just be resilient, but benefit from it and grow stronger. that's a fascinating book. i have that one at home marked up really significantly. i read a book that was recommended to me by james altitur called jesus' son. and this book, jesus' son, is not religious. it is a collection of short stories. i'm blanking on the author's name. but it is some of the most beautiful prose i have ever read. it's fiction.  kevin rose: does it have anything to do with jesus?tim ferriss: no.  kevin rose: how do you know it's not jesus' son?  tim ferriss: maybe it's jesus' son. could be. good point. but these stories are so brutal. i mean, they're really, really brutal stories. but the prose is so beautiful that it makes it absorbable. and it was recommended to me by a number of people i really respect as readers and writers. and i just flew through this book. i didn't expect it. but that's one, if you're looking for something to read that is fiction that you can probably digest in a day or two, that's a great read as well.  kevin rose: sweet.  tim ferriss: so let's hop on to some other stuff, yeah?  kevin rose: yeah, yeahall right. so i want to show you an app called supit's a new app that's - i don't have any affiliation with this app. i just saw it for the first time yesterday. i just want to show it to you because i think it's pretty funny that it's just a random app. so i just sent a request to daria for sup. and she's gonna receive it here in a second. i like apps that are just pushing the boundaries. so look, it says connecting to daria right now. and we can shoot b-roll of this afterwards, yeah? we'll reshoot some stuff. and then what happens is, you get a live connection with your friend. watch this. it's about to begin. and then now she's shooting us live, and then i can tell her which way to turn the camera.  tim ferriss: oh, that's cool.  kevin rose: and then i'm extending the time by hitting the little heart here. i'm like, turn it this way, turn it this way, turn it this way. and actually, you know what? i want to see what's up on the ceiling there.   and then she'll note it. and it says on her screen, turn. isn't that awesome?  tim ferriss: that's really cool.  kevin rose: turn over here. my buddy danny was at a concert the other day, and so he was like - i could say, give me a selfie. i hit that button, and then she can do a little selfie here. isn't that pretty sweet?  tim ferriss: that's cool. i like that.kevin rose: so this is just a fun little thing that - there she is. isn't that amazing?  tim ferriss: oh, that's great. that's cool. i like that.  kevin rose: so we don't talk about - well, i guess we do talk about apps every once in a while. sup is just a fun way to, if you have a friend out doing something cool - my buddy danny was at outside lands the other day, and he was watching a concert. and i knew he had backstage passes, and so i hit him up, and then he was livestreaming it to me, and i could just get a little window into his life. and so there's no audio associated with it, so you don't have to worry about any of that stuff.  tim ferriss: yeahthat's fun.  kevin rose: i like it when i meet an entrepreneur or i see a startup that is not - i mean, in my line of work and on the investing side, you just see a lot of the same old stuff.  tim ferriss: yeah.  kevin rose: or a slight little variation, or something different.  tim ferriss: you see a lot of crap.  kevin rose: you see a lot of crap. i mean, you're in the same world. and so this was new and unique and fun, and i just thought, i don't know that this is gonna be a big business. i don't know that it's really gonna take off, but you know what? hats off to them for trying something different, you know? and it's kind of a fun little thingso i just wanted to give them a plug.  tim ferriss: cool. do you think we're in a tech bubble? i want you to chime in on this.  kevin rose: there's certainly more capital available now for startups in the bay area, the silicon valley area, then i've ever seen. it's easier to get funded than ever before. what do you consider to be a bubble? i mean -  tim ferriss: what would you consider a bubble?  kevin rose: so what i think is that every time another tech company ipos, whether it's a twitter, or gopro, or you name it, you have to imagine that these companies are 500 to 1000 people or more. and you instantly create several hundred millionaires, or 100 millionaires, or whatever it may be. and those are an angel gets their wings.   they instantly become angel investors, right? a lot of people are like, hey, i get tech. i worked at an awesome startup, i made some money. now i want to go invest in other things.  tim ferriss: there are thousands of new angel investors in the last two years.  kevin rose: so you jump back to 2006, when i first started really seriously angel investing, and there was just - not a handful of us, but a hundred of us. and now there's thousands. so those people have to go through the process of losing their money. not completely, but they'll place some bad bets. some people will realize that investing's not for them. they're not good at picking companies, or whatever it may be. and then those investors will fade away and say, screw it. i'm sticking with my smp 500 and my wealth front, and i'm happy. at the same time, new companies are ipoing and new investors are being born. and so there's this reinforcing bubble that's continuing on. but it's not hurting anyone. it's not like back in 2000, when companies would ipo, and you'd have my mom and dad putting their life savings into a tech company, and they'd lose all their money, right?   that's not happening. so i feel like, who care if there's a bubble? it's not hurting the average consumer, so it's some wealthy tech people losing their money. the stats right now are about two out of every 10 companies actually make it. and so advice for would-be new angel investors, because i see a lot of people that have made some money, and they're like, hey, how do i get started in this world, is that don't just invest in one or two companies. but if you're really gonna be serious about this, go on and do those 10 to 15 to 20 companies so that you have an entire portfolio, so you're spreading your risk out across several companies, rather than just concentrating it on just two or three. so i think that certainly, valuations are higher than i've seen them in a long time, and there's more investors than i've seen in a long time. so you could consider that a bubble, but one that when it bursts, no one really gets hurt.  tim ferriss: depends on if it's constrained to the private markets.  kevin rose: that's true. and the jobs act is changing some of that stuff, so that could bleed into the average investor.ibut i don't know.  tim ferriss: that's true. what sort of personal improvement projects are you working on these days besides the meditation  kevin rose: i'm been doing lumosity a lot, which i actually like. i think it's making me a little bit sharper. as you get into your later 30s, like i am now, certain things - and i'm sure you've noticed it as well.  tim ferriss: well, i feel like i'm 80 because i have lyme disease right now.  kevin rose: well, i know that, which is horrible, but you know what i'm talking about. in general, before all that.  tim ferriss: yeah.  kevin rose: there's these little things. other than that, personal improvement projects, the gym. actually, the gluten-free thing has done wonders for my beer gut, which has gone down considerably.  tim ferriss: are you doing more than benching? are you doing back exercises?  kevin rose: why?  tim ferriss: i'm just kidding.  kevin rose: back exercises? you can't just go to the gym and just bench?  tim ferriss: i don't know. it seems like you bench press a lot. and you have very, very manly chesticles.  kevin rose: dude, i've got some good arms, too. you're just jealous because my arms are bigger than yours now.  tim ferriss: oh, here we go. here we go.   kevin rose: these are testicles. did you say testicles?  tim ferriss: no, i said chesticles.  kevin rose: oh, it's chesticles. i thought you meant testicles  tim ferriss: you might have very nice testicles as well. i haven't had a chance to, you know.  kevin rose: one of the things i do do that actually i would recommend to anyone out there that has really trimmed me up, i've tried a bunch of stuff.  tim ferriss: corsets?  kevin rose: no.  tim ferriss: okay.  kevin rose: i did, actually, kind of. here, i'll explain. i'll explain. how are you not drunk? you're acting like you're drunk.  tim ferriss: get lyme disease. you're high all day. it's amazing.  kevin rose: so here's the thing. i've been searching for a long time to find a way to get some cardio in and make it fun. cardio takes a lot of time. it's kind of a pain in the ass, blablabla. you can do high intensity interval training, that's fine. but here's the deal. i got a treadmill at home. i invested in a treadmill, got one. and i have my ipad with me, so i can do miscellaneous ipad stuff. the problem is, you go too fast on the treadmill and you're balancing all over the place. you get seasick, and you're like, i'm done, right?  tim ferriss: right.  kevin rose: so what i did is i bought a weight vest. and i found an article on the internet that shows that all of the new - you know the new avengers movie coming out, the new x-men and all that stuff? all the trainers there made them wear 20-pound weight vests around everywhere they went, three months prior to the movie or whatever, right?  tim ferriss: this is a lot more tiring than you might think.  kevin rose: yeah, it drains you real quick.  tim ferriss: it's ridiculous.  kevin rose: so what i do is i set my incline to 10 percent on the treadmill. the speed to two miles an hour, so it's a nice, slow walk. put the 20-pound weight vest on and then flip open my ipad mini, and i play kingdom rush, which is a great game, and a few other gamesand i'll be sitting there, totally in my game. i look up, and it's 45 minutes in. i got 60 minutes. i am drenched. i mean, absolutely - i'm having to move my ipad away because the sweat is falling off my face. and then i come in the house and i shower, and it wasn't like i even worked out. it was like i just played games for an hour.  tim ferriss: that's cool.  kevin rose: and it's awesome. and the fat just falls off.  tim ferriss: dude, you know what you should do is get an oculus rift and play some karate game so you can do it on the treadmill while you're walking.  kevin rose: that's a fad. oculus rift is dead.  tim ferriss: what? really? do you believe that?  kevin rose: i think vr is just dead.  tim ferriss: a lot of the big gaming producers are building out games that are dependent on vr, or at least oculus rift.  kevin rose: and they were on the wii with the freaking thing that you moved around.  tim ferriss: really?  kevin rose: see, i think once -  tim ferriss: i'm sure the hardcore gamers are gonna love it. somebody was telling me the other day, or a few weeks ago - they're like, you don't understand. football ,man. you're gonna be putting the thing on, you're gonna be in the helmet. it'll be crazy. and i'm like, yeah. i'm gonna go to a super bowl party and i'm gonna walk in, and there's gonna be 30 people with oculuses on their heads.  kevin rose: i think that the football use case and all of that is minor compared to the potential for a second life-like utopia. well, i'm really excited about second life. i told you about hifi, right? high fidelity?  tim ferriss: well, i've heard about it. you didn't tell me about it, though. tell me more. oh, it's the same guy that created - philip?  kevin rose: yeah, philip rosedale, the guy that created second life, is creating a new virtual world.   it's gonna be freaking awesome.tim ferriss: i think that's a big deal.  kevin rose: absolutely.  tim ferriss: have you read snow crash by neal stephenson?  kevin rose: yeah.  tim ferriss: so i think it's gonna be like that. i mean, i think that you'll have people in less than ideal circumstances, all the way up to the top of the food chain, who are going to treat this potentially secondary world with highly developed technology like oculus rift - it'll become the time-intensive equivalent of what people are doing with, say, world of warcraft. there are people who spend 20 to 50 hours a week.  kevin rose: i get it.  tim ferriss: you look at, what the fuck is it? the kardashian app that is pulling - it's $100 to $200 million in revenue, which is just a fantasy world. i think it's just called famous, right? where you pay money to try to become famous, sign with an agent and do different commercials and advertisements. but imagine if you could do that from pov. i don't know, man.  [00:45:06]  kevin rose: you should do that for your - call it timtim, like an app. and you have to go work out at the gym and eat beans and protein.  tim ferriss: that sound really -  kevin rose: that would be amazing.  tim ferriss: that sounds like a gripping game. it's like, do you want two more dollars for another spoonful of lentils?  kevin rose: it's like, do you want antibiotics or anabolic steroids? hm, what would tim choose? the steroids.  tim ferriss: contracted lyme disease. timeout for five hours. or you can buy doxycycline for five tim dollars.  kevin rose: for timtim points. you're like, i'll take the timtim bucks.  tim ferriss: oh god.  kevin rose: dude, i will be a whale on your game and spend a ton of money if you make that game. that would be amazing. i'm like, i'm gonna buy timtim bucks.  tim ferriss: timtim bucks. tim bucks. oh jesus.  kevin rose: all right, so let's move on.  tim ferriss: yeah.  kevin rose: so i showed you - well, your turn.  tim ferriss: well, this is not something i want to spend a lot of time on, but i was more nervous than i've been in ages about a week ago when i did my first email to this list that i've been accumulating since 2007. so when i made my first homepage and kind of sketched it out, it included an email capture because that's what everybody told me i should do, and then i promptly forgot about the whole thing, and didn't want to email people because i didn't want to get an email myself, yaddayaddayadda. and then went back and looked at it not too long ago and saw that i had between 200 and 300,000 email addresses. somewhere thereabouts. and so really got in touch with all the experts to sort of reengage with awebber, and did my first mailing out to folks. because i feel like with blogs, right? blogs are considered very old-fashioned in a lot of ways, right? in the world of new social media apps and so on, blogs are considered kind of old-fashioned. but i find that i do my best thinking in longer form on the blog.   and i've struggled with how to get that out because it's so noisyand let's say i put out a post on facebook. because facebook wants you to - they'll throttle you back because they want you to boost it and pay to promote it to your audience. so you only hit 10 to 15 percent of your audience. and then twitter, twitter's amazing, but it's become so popular. and i think actually advertising - and i'm testing some advertising on twitter right now - can be very effective. but if you're just using your follower base, if you put out a tweet, and most people are following a few hundred people, it's like throwing an orange golf ball into a roaring rapid. i mean, that stuff gets pushed down so quickly, you're probably also only hitting a very small percentage.  kevin rose: right. why orange? probably a white one would be harder to see.  tim ferriss: well, if it's white, you wouldn't see it at all.  kevin rose: right. but orange, you would see a little bit?  tim ferriss: yeah, that's my sort of metaphorical assumption.  kevin rose: just checking.  tim ferriss: if you prefer, bright blue. we could use bright blue   it's funny that sort of - i've gone full circle, and it looks like i'll be focusing a lot on email and the blog, where i can actually get now, instead of, say, 10 percent of my audience or five percent of my audience seeing a blog post, get 50 percent of my audience potentially seeing a blog post. and i've already seen such a massive uptick in comments, in sharing, in everything. it's been really eye-opening.  kevin rose: so what does the next three years look like for you? because you've done so much.  tim ferriss: oh, man.  kevin rose: well, hold on. you've done so much crazy stuff over the yearsyou've got this great audience of people that obviously want to learn how to create a better lifestyle for themselves, how to get in shape, how to cook better. you've done all these awesome thingswhat's next? what's the - are you doing another big thing, or are you gonna just focus on the core that you already have, or?  tim ferriss: i haven't decided. there are a few things that i'd really like to do. i have been working on my first screenplay, and that's been really fun for me to do. people have approached me over the years about something with an adaptation of the four hour work week.   and a lot of the back story is not in there. i mean, the wild adventures and misadventures and craziness from that year-and-a-half of traveling the world is not really out there, published. and so i've been playing around. it would be a comedy. it would be kind of like fight club meets dodgeball, something like that. it'd be -  kevin rose: brad pitt throwing balls around.  tim ferriss: yeah, sure. yeah, we could go there. or ben stiller as my arch nemesis in the world of tango. ben, if you're listening, please talkcome in. but i've been having a lot of fun with screenplays, and i've been reading a lot of screenplays, which are like novels that take an hour-and-a-half to read. it's awesome. reading screenplays is super fun. i recommend the king's speech. i recommend casablanca, if you want to go super classic. my favorite of all time, probably the princess bride. that is so good. william goldman's just a genius. fight club's great. fear and loathing in las vegas is pretty good   but if i'm gonna do a next big project, i think it would look something like a feature film.  kevin rose: do you think your audiobook stuff will continue to be a big thing?  tim ferriss: i'm really enjoying the tim ferriss bookclub stuff, and i've been acquiring audiobooks. the next book that's coming out -  kevin rose: i'm really excited for - well, i've told you this on multiple episodes, but i think that's the coolest thing you're working on right now.  tim ferriss: really?  kevin rose: i mean, it's cool. it's awesome. you're revitalizing all these old books, and i think it's really sweet.  tim ferriss: i'm super excited. i can't name the next book yet, but this is gonna be the first book -  kevin rose: what is the first letter?  tim ferriss: w.  kevin rose: are you serious?  tim ferriss: yeah.  kevin rose: interesting. i'll have to figure that out.  tim ferriss: so but this is the first book, people are gonna slowly, when they look back at the bookclub, if it works out as i'm hoping, when they look and see - there are about four or five books right nowlove all of them. and you can just go to fourhourworkweek, all spelled out, .com/books. so fourhourworkweek.com/books to see all of them. but so far, it's just been audiobooks. the next book, i actually have the audio and the ebook rights.   i've been figuring out so much with these various launches that i think there will be a point where i'm basically - i would like to take the digital and the audio and blow that out of the water. i mean, just load it into this cannon and shoot it into outer space as far as amazon sales and so on, and awareness and pr concernwhat i'd like to do is potentially partner with traditional publishers to have them handle the print edition and retail distributionastonishingly to me -  kevin rose: are you a complete publisher at that point?  tim ferriss: well, i would be a publisher, but i wouldn't be a complete publisher because i don't want to deal with the print. it's not my area of expertise.  kevin rose: right, but you're outsourcing that to them. but why do you need to outsource it? why not just have it printed on the side - well, i guess they have all the distribution stuff.  tim ferriss: i'd like them - yeah, because they have sales departments and relationships that they can capitalize on for the retail distribution. i think that's valuable.  kevin rose: sure.  tim ferriss: especially if, for instance, imagine this, i become a talent scout, and i find people who have never published books, but who have amazing writing capabilities.   and i kind of coach them through the process. and this wouldn't be - this is not my main financial thing. it's actually a huge time investment for not very much financial return. but i'm so passionate about the idea that - and this might seem like a ridiculous comparison, but the way that, say, eminem discovered - and i believe it was eminem. maybe it was dr. dre who discovered 50 cent?  kevin rose: i think it was just dre.  tim ferriss: well, dre discovered eminem. then eminem discovered 50 centand i think - who discovered rihanna? was that also eminem?  kevin rose: i have no idea.  tim ferriss: anyway, somebody'll correct me. but the idea that you could be like, that's talent, but they're gonna get chewed up the system, and they're gonna make too many mistakes that could be fatal, great here are the people you need, here's the toolkit you need. and then shoot them off into outer space. the idea of being able to do that is really exciting.  kevin rose: i want you to do a romance novel.  tim ferriss: you want me to write a romance novel?  kevin rose: i think you've got it in you.  tim ferriss: how about a bromance novel? i could just write about us.  kevin rose: that's right.   whatever. just think of a fake name for me and i'll be all good.  tim ferriss: let me tell you one thing, because i know we've talked a lot about sort of next chapters, and what are we gonna do, and things like that.  kevin rose: i'll talk about my next chapter.  tim ferriss: yeah. well, i want you to. so one thing that i realized, i had a really profound civics retreat into the wilderness recently. that sounds so weird. but i spent a lot of time in nature with a couple of very close friends.  kevin rose: what were you doing out there?  tim ferriss: that sounds equally weird. i was experimenting with medicinal plants. let's call it that. and -  kevin rose: i wasn't there, for the record.  tim ferriss: and you were not there.  kevin rose: i wanted to go, but i was scared.  tim ferriss: it was a good decision you didn't go.  kevin rose: you know how weak i am. fragile.  tim ferriss: no, not weak. you're not yet antifragile in that department .  kevin rose: can you grab me a beer, babe? babe, can you please grab me a water? thank you. i call my wife babe! tim ferriss: she's hot.  kevin rose: she is hot.  tim ferriss: what i was gonna say is -  kevin rose: so is your girlfriend, so that's fine.  tim ferriss: yes, that's true. so i was really having this kind of existential crisis trying to decide what my next project was gonna be. and i love the tech investing, but honestly, there's so much happening right now, i find it kind of overwhelming. i mean, just so many emails, so many meetings.  kevin rose: we've talked about this so many times.  tim ferriss: it's extremely overwhelming. and it's an enviable problem to have, of course, but it's still a very significant source of anxiety, i think. because you want to be responsive, you want to be helpful, but there are so many - the barriers to entry with tech startups are so low, you just get - you can be in the middle of a tsunami really quickly. so i was debating all this stuff. no thank you.  kevin rose: okay, just checking.  tim ferriss: so what my friend said to me, he said - he's also actually involved in tech. and he said, i really owe you a debt of gratitude. i won't name you by name in case you don't want to be named in that context. but he said, there are a lot of venture capitalists out therethere are a lot of investors.   and if you don't invest in a company that's really promising, somebody else will just take your place. there's no shortage of capital. and he's like, the good companies will get funded no matter what.  kevin rose: sure.  tim ferriss: and he said, but - and he saw me at an event where i had multiple people in line come up to me sort of crying because they'd lost 100 plus pounds, and they had these dramatic changeshe was like, you're never gonna have that impact investing in companiesyou're replaceable as a vc. and he's like, you should stick with your writing. keep writing. and that had a really huge impact on me. and that's part of the reason why i've reshifted, and i'm focusing a lot on the last few blog posts i've put a ton of time into, and i'm really happy with the response.  kevin rose: that's awesome, dude. i'm glad to see that because i love your content too, and i think that you're awesome at doing that stuffand more of that is better for the earth, so.  tim ferriss: i'm enjoying it. but i'm sure you - we don't have to dig too deep with this, but it's very seductive to focus on the things that are not bad - you don't dislike them - that provide the highest financial return.  kevin rose: sure.  tim ferriss: and that's generally not creating content. but that's not the only return. that's not the only roi you can have for investing your time, certainly. so that's been a big one for me. but enough about me. tell me, your next chapter. what's going on?  kevin rose: i mean, there's nothing new to talk about today other than the fact that i've been really enjoying the whole creative process side again. i've gotten involved in creating some new applications. and so i've got a buddy of mine, mark hymien, who i worked with briefly at digg. daniel berker was my main designer there for many years, and then mark was hired to work with us a little bit later. and he's a really good product guy, and really good, just awesome designer, both mobile and web and all over the place, and also actually a pretty good artist.  tim ferriss: that's a cool combo.  kevin rose: yeah, he's really talented up and down.   so i've been prototyping some stuff on the weekends. just sitting out and building some new apps, both on the desktop and on mobile. i have three or four ideas right now that i've just kind of been sitting on and starting to flesh out a little bit. and it's weird because i just feel really - i mean, daria'll tell you. i've just been working. not working, vetting companies and going and having coffee working, because that's what i do every week. but this is me in my office just on a whiteboard and having mark come over, and we're brainstorming ideas and going through mockups, and trying out different flows, and talking about how things come together, and working developers. and it's been fun. and to get those creative juices going again and starting something new.tim ferriss: it's just like me with my writing.  kevin rose: it's the best.  tim ferriss: you're creating something. you're creating something from nothing.  kevin rose: and it feels really good.  tim ferriss: as opposed to just filtering. you know what i mean? and it's not that you can't be helpful, but there's something viscerally rewarding about taking something in here that doesn't exist and creating something tangible, whether that's digital or physical, that people can interact with.   i mean, it's so gratifying. and i remember talking to you on the phone not too long ago, and i was like, you sound a lot more excited than you've sounded in a while.  kevin rose: well, it's crazy because there's two independent moments that got me pretty excited to get back into this. one was, i was at blue bottle coffee, having some coffee, meeting with a founder. and this kid just grabbed me randomly, like i'm sure fans do with you every once in a while. and i was like, awesome, what are you working on? he's like, oh, i've got this startup, blablabla. i just love digg nation. i used to love digg. and i was like, oh, thanks, appreciate it. and he's like, when's your next startup? and i'm like, oh, dude, i'm a full-time vc. and it's like i had just shot the kid's dog. his face just dropped down, and he's like - and he looked at me and he's just like, you're not gonna start something new? he was expecting me to create the next thing. and it didn't hit me right away. i was like, oh, i'm sorry, and i had to run, so i took off. and then later on, i was like, wow, that guy - it was clear to me that he really enjoyed something that i had created in the past, as i'm sure you get with your readers and stuff.   and it was like, wow. i should keep doing that. why not? that's what i love the most. and the other piece - that was one story. the other one was, i had gotten to know, luckily, tony fidel quite wellhe was the original guy that created the ipod, created nest later onyou probably saw my foundation interview with him, foundation.kr if you haven't seen those videos yet, and go to that website. a lot of great entrepreneurs there. i sat down with him, and he created nest. he sold it to google. and so i see him a lot more because he's always around at google. and we were out and having a drink, and i was like, gosh, what keeps you going? because i won't say what his net worth is, but it's a lot. i would imagine he's - well, i don't know, but i mean, the sale was public about what he sold it to google for and stuff like that. so i imagine he's got a billion dollars, right?  tim ferriss: yeah.  kevin rose: and i'm like, what keeps you going? what drives you to do all the stuff that you do?   and he's just like, it was about the passion around creativity and wanting to just invent and create and be mixed in with the people that are doing amazing things. and i was listening to his storyand he has kids and a wife, and he's traveling a lot, and it was just like, the dude is juggling 10x what i am, and he's just doing it with ease. and he's just a badass, just can execute like none other.  tim ferriss: what's the secret sauce?  kevin rose: his secret sauce is just understanding that - and this is my take on it. this isn't what he said to me, but kind of distilling down everything that we talked about, it's just that he understand that - i feel that more or less that you only have so - you never know what's gonna happen to you, right? we talked about this. you went to your friend's memorial today.  tim ferriss: yeah, he was just as [inaudible]well, we talked about this. i mean, he displayed no aberrant, unusual systems of any type. was going out hiking with a close friend. met up with friends and family in the days preceding it, totally fine, and they're still doing a full sort of coroner's investigation and whatnot. but just dropped dead. and similarly, one of my brother's best friend's girlfriends - i mean, this is a woman in her 20s, perfectly healthy from all outward indications, in an office, has an aneurysm, drops dead.  kevin rose: yeah. well, the guy - so the lead engineer for boost it boards, those automatic skateboards that you may have saw on the kickstarter that you can control with your hand, which i got a prototype of and was using, a couple week ago, two weeks ago, was in san francisco on a boost it board going like this, just controlling it. drops dead. brain aneurysm.  tim ferriss: so you never know, guys.  kevin rose: here's the whole thing. at the end of the day, i was sitting there listening to that, and i'm like, you and i have both been very blessed, and we've done some awesome stuff and gotten rewarded for it.   and so i can kind of fade off in the future and be this little investor and live my little life, and go down and drink my coffee with my founders and come back home, and drink my glass of wine and go to bed, and call that a day. or i can step back up to the plate and try some crazy shit again, and just see where it takes me. and i was like, why don't i just go do some crazy stuff? so i'm still a full-time investor at google ventures and doing all that stuff. but there's nothing preventing me from hacking on stuff and doing little things. so i'm having fun doing it.  tim ferriss: i'm all for it, man. i think you should keep it up.  kevin rose: so anyway, that is that. oh, last thing i wanted to talk about. do you have anymore, or are you good?  tim ferriss: no, i'm good.  kevin rose: so that last thing, we always talk a little about hobbies and stuff like that. one of the things that - i don't know if we talk about hobbies ever.  tim ferriss: we always talk about little hobbies.  kevin rose: little hobbies. one of the things in the last two or three months is a friend of mine, a couple friends of mine, have gotten me excited about wristwatches. and at first, you think wristwatches and you think, oh boy, why?    we have time on our phones. why would you ever want a watch on your wrist?  tim ferriss: that's my question, precisely my question.  kevin rose: and my buddy - you know kevin's sister. and he would kill me for calling him out, but whatever. well, i mean, he can watch thiskevin, you know i've had a couple drinks. so basically, kevin's a good guy, and he was saying that the only jewelry we have as men - women have earrings, they have necklaces, stuff like that. the only thing we have other than t-shirts is a watch, a nice timepiece, right?  tim ferriss: you could get some earrings.kevin rose: i could get some earrings. and so i wasn't into watches at all. my dad passed away a few years ago. and he left me two watches. my dad was by no means a wealthy man. i would consider him - we were very poor for many years, and then eventually, he broke into the middleclass, like standard middleclass, and he bought a rolex watch, two of them, actually. one a little bit older, and one newand those were his prized positions. in fact, the second one that he bought, he never wore, ever   he was like, i'm saving this. he never put it on. he put it on twicebut it's flawless. so anyway, i inherited that stuff. and i was like, wow, this is kind of cool. it's my dad's stuff. and so that was kind of attractive. and then i started learning more about the fact that there's still innovation happening in these timepieces, and there's these artisan craftsmen that still work in this field, this dying field, making these amazing new innovations in mechanical - not digital, but straight up traditional hand wound watches. and so i started getting into it. i actually traveled out to germany with daria, and we went out to this place called lange and sohne, which is this awesome little boutique that they only make 5000 or so watches per year. and we got to meet them. and i hadn't bought a really crazy watch. and i met this team and walked through this whole compound in germany, and it was a few hundred people.   and they hand polish every little part. they care so much about how these watches go togetherlittle tiny town in the middle of nowhereyou fly into dresden, then you drive about an hour-and-a-half away. and they assemble them, check the time, make sure they use all these fancy gauges, disassemble them and then clean them again, and then reassemble them. and they only make about 100 per year per type of watch. and so i was like, wow, this is really cool. and on top of that, you realize when you invest in something like this, especially something that's not so much a rolex, but they make a million a year, they make a million rolexes a year, that something real small and boutiquey, they actually go up in value. so it's like, in your head, you say, okay, well, i'd normally put this much in my 401(k) per year. i'm gonna carve out a little bit.  tim ferriss: just this, hold on.  kevin rose: i know it's creepy.  tim ferriss: don't put your 401(k) money into timepieces, please.  kevin rose: listen. that's true. but what i'm saying is, i started following some of the blogs. one in particular, hodinkee, which you should check out if you're at all curious about this, is probably the best watch blog out there.  tim ferriss: hodinkee?  kevin rose: yeah.  tim ferriss: how do you spell it?  kevin rose: h-o-d-i-n-k-e-e.com.  tim ferriss: i knew there was gonna be some twist. okay. too es.  kevin rose: but anyway, check it out. it's a really great blog. and you start to learn a lot about what goes into all these things. and some of them can track the moon phases and do really crazy stuff. so anyway, this is one that i picked up here about three weeks ago. it just came out. it's actually made by swatch, of all brands. this here, this watch here is called the system 51. and it's because it has 51 parts, which is like it's an automatic watch, meaning it's self-winding when you wear it. but 51 parts, and it's all machine-assembled. it's the first fully automatic, meaning self-winding, machine-assembled watch. it has 17 new patents. it's very collectible. it's $150. you can buy it now. $150. i mean, that's pretty awesome. it's not crazy, and it's just like a pretty cool watch.   and it winds itself when you wear it. and it has a lot of horological significance. and that's what they call people who are into time-keeping.  tim ferriss: horologists.  kevin rose: horologists. laugh all you want. but anyway.  tim ferriss: you were waiting for me to laugh. i'm just waiting for you to continue.  kevin rose: anyway, so i started kind of getting into the whole scene of learning more about it, and just starting to appreciate this stuff. and it's funny, you meet other people, and they'll tell you something very unique about their little timepiece. and if you're into engineering and you like that side of things, which i think all geeks do, you can understand what goes into the manufacturing and why it's pretty awesome. so anyway.  tim ferriss: i haven't had a watch in years. i might actually get a watch, not because i'm gonna collect it, but because i like to take sort of a technology sabbath on saturdays. and i try to go screenless on saturdays. so no phones.  kevin rose: dude, pick up one of these guys.  tim ferriss: but it's kind of a pain in the ass to keep track of time, so it'd be nice to have just some lightweight watch.  kevin rose: i mean, this is one of those things where i think that in the next not five or 10, but maybe 20 years, this thing will probably be five, 10 times the value of what it is today. but i mean, it's $150. but it's a freaking cool watch. and this is a very significant watch. and the whole scene was blowing up about how crazy this watch is, for the engineering that's gone into it.  tim ferriss: cool.  kevin rose: but what's crazy about swatch that you don't know, and this is getting a little geeky, and i promise we can stop the show. but swatch owns almost all of the shit out there. they do all the internals for almost all the major brands. and they own - they're a huge company. forget the retail stores and the little plastic cheap watches. they have all the engineering. consider them the intel inside of all of their watches.  tim ferriss: that's kind of cool.  kevin rose: oh yeah.  tim ferriss: where are they based? are they swiss, or where are they based?  kevin rose: yeah. so you and buy cartier, or a high-end designer watch, like a harry winston or a cartier or something like that. some of those are this brand called etta.  tim ferriss: patek. where you put patek phillipe there.  kevin rose: so patek phillipe and lange are tied in my line neck and neck for the number one brand in the world. they're both amazing.  tim ferriss: do they use the intel inside?  kevin rose: no.  tim ferriss: they don't use any technology?  kevin rose: so those are all considered original movements where they have their own in-house manufacturing and their own in-house engineers that actually make all the internal movements. we actually met the head guy, the head engineer, at lange, and he had dinner with us. it was amazing. i mean, this guy, all he does is build these little tiny - i mean, they're so small, the number of components that go in here.  tim ferriss: yeah, that is [inaudible].  kevin rose: it's just fascinating. and it's a simple old-school thing. but for me, you've got to understand. i'm doing tech all 24/7. that's all i doto break away from that and actually have a conversation with someone that's brilliant in a non-internet way is so nice.  tim ferriss: that's so much fun.  kevin rose: yeah, totally.  tim ferriss: that's part of what was so fun about being out on the east coast for a bit, is you just have more diversity of interests, quite frankly, and also industry.  kevin rose: like an old, old wooden ship? diversity? do you know diversity?  tim ferriss: what? i have no idea what you're talking about.  kevin rose: have you ever seen anchorman?  tim ferriss: no, i actually haven't.  kevin rose: what the fuck?  tim ferriss: i haven't seen it.  kevin rose: you have never seen anchorman?  tim ferriss: i haven't seen it.  kevin rose: are you kidding me? readers, follow me, don't follow him. what the hell.  tim ferriss: all right, wait, i'm gonna trade. no, i haven't seen anchorman have you seen stepbrothers?  kevin rose: yes.  tim ferriss: okay. have you seen king of kong?  kevin rose: is that one of your porns?  tim ferriss: no. you've seen it, right? king of kong.  kevin rose: oh, i have, the our kid guy.  tim ferriss: yeah, yeah. it's about the rivalry for the donkey kong world record. and if you're gonna see just any documentary - actually, you know what? graham, any top documentary picks?  kevin rose: yeah, graham, let's get your likes.  tim ferriss: king of kong is amazing. man on wire is also incredible.  graham: yeah, i'm a big fan of king of kong, but i actually just watched one today about people that live in tiny houses.  kevin rose: oh, cool. i like that.  tim ferriss: tiny houses.  graham: it's called tiny house.  tim ferriss: tiny house, about people who live in tiny houses.  graham: that are living in 200 square feet of space.  kevin rose: that sounds awesome. i've seen those. they're amazing  tim ferriss: we've had a bunch of conversations about those.  graham: [crosstalk] trailers is that they don't have to build it to building code.  tim ferriss: yeah, exactly.  kevin rose: tiny house.  graham: you don't have to pay mortgages, property tax, all that kind of stuff.  kevin rose: yeah, sweet.  daria: the guys never have girlfriends.  kevin rose: this is what i've heard.  tim ferriss: no, no, they can be really well-designed. some of those tiny houses, and did they show any of the ones in china? the ones that are folding?  graham: [crosstalk] cults, these small communities of people that follow each other on blogs and things like that, and pass around plans on how to build tiny houses.  kevin rose: oh, i want a tiny house. can i have a tiny house?  graham: they'll have it in their backyard, and then they move it onto a plot of land in colorado and live there.  kevin rose: i just asked my wife if i could have a tiny house, and she goes, have one with tim. that's what she just said.  tim ferriss: good. that would help me write my bromance novel.  kevin rose: can we have a tiny house together?  graham: it's on netflix.  tim ferriss: brokeback. brokeback bros.  kevin rose: netflix, tiny house. before we end up the show, any one last thing that product, book, anything that, graham - graham's the cameraman. you guys all know that.  graham: not really. i mean, i'm getting into watches as well.  kevin rose: oh, you are. you're getting into watches.  graham: i've been wearing timex weekenders for a long time, and i really like those, and now i'm kind of like, what should i get next?  kevin rose: oh, shit. we gotta talk.  graham: the lange thing looks pretty cool.tim ferriss: dangerous to have [inaudible].  kevin rose: are you masturbating? i mean, are you doing his thing? and i didn't mean it that way.  tim ferriss: he's not on camera. he can do whatever he wants.  kevin rose: are you doing tim's thing?  graham: no, i'm not.  kevin rose: sorry, i'm kind of off.  tim ferriss: he's the only one masturbating all the time.  kevin rose: that's what i meant. i'm done.  graham: i could give that up, but i couldn't give up alcohol for a month right now.  tim ferriss: okay.  kevin rose: that's what i ask all my friend when they walk in the door. are you masturbating right now? all right, let's -  tim ferriss: on that note.  kevin rose: anything else?  tim ferriss: noi haven't been getting into watches, but i have been getting back into fiction and reading a lot of kurt vonnegut.   so if you fashion yourself a nonfiction reader and you're like, oh, i'm not gonna read fiction. it's a waste of time. if i want to make stuff up, i could just do it myself. do yourself a favor. just read cat's cradle by kurt vonnegut and see if you still have that opinion. i think you will change your mind. it's very short and very fast.  kevin rose: awesome. well, that is it. that's all i got. that's all you got.  tim ferriss: that's all i got. nob numbs.  kevin rose: dude, good luck with your 30 days. i will donate my $1000 to donorschoose.org. thank you for watching, everyone. i will see you back here, and you'll be drinking next time.  tim ferriss: i will be drinking in the next episode. not that i need it, but i'll give me some extra personality.  kevin rose: well, seriously, i hope everything goes well with the lyme disease stuff.  tim ferriss: thanks, yeah. i'll be okay. if you have any tips, let me know in the comments.  kevin rose: cool. see you guys.  tim ferriss: all right.  kevin rose: peace. if you want more of the tim ferriss show, you can subscribe to the podcast on itunes, or go to fourhourblog.com.  male speaker 1: f-o-u-r-b-l-o-g.com.  kevin rose: where you'll find an award-winning blog, tons of audio and video interviews, stories with people like warren buffett and mike shinoda from linkin park, the books, plus much, much morefollow tim on twitter at twitter.com/tferriss. that's -  male speaker 1: t-f-e-r-r-i-s-s .  kevin rose: or on facebook at facebook.com/timferris. until next time, thanks for listening.