!"#$%&'()*+*,--.
/,-01*2&3*45%%&667*899*:&'()6*:565%;5<7
 !The Tim Ferriss Show Transcripts
 Episode 2
:  
Josh Waitzkin
 Show notes and links at tim.blog/podcast
    Tim Ferriss:
   So Josh, I figure we might as well start at the top and do a little retrospective of 
what led you initially to write 
The Art of Learning
. Of course, that's how I was, 
in many ways introduced to your
 work, and then through our mutual friend, 
Max, ended up connecting. But what was the reason you decided to write that 
book?  Josh
 Waitzkin: 
  I initially started thinking about the idea of the book about two years into my 
martial arts lessons. So I transitioned fro
m chess into studying, into meditating 
and into studying East Asian philosophy. Then I started to get into Tai Chi 
Chuan and ultimately into the martial application of push hands and I started to 
experience this very interesting transition from the princip
les. 
  My level just began to translate directly over into the martial arts. I think it was 
primarily one experience I had that was something around two years into my 
Tai Chi training. I was giving a simultaneous chess exhibition in Memphis, 
Tennessee at a
 fundraiser for my school district and I was 45 or 50 boards at 
once. I was walking down the middle of this big square of chess tables. 
  Everyone's playing one game. I'm playing each of them
, and about 40 minutes 
into the simul I had this experience that 
was so interesting. I began to feel like I 
was riding the energetic wave of the game, like I was in push hands training. I 
wasn't playing chess. I wasn't thinking in chess language. I wasn't calculating 
variations. I was feeling the flow. Feeling my space 
out behind, like I would in 
the martial arts and I had this realization. 
  I was playing beautiful chess, but I wasn't consciously playing chess, that the 
barriers between these two different arts had dissolved in the mind and that's 
when I started to conc
eive of the idea of the book. A lot of the process I spent 
five years taking notes and I had 400 or 500 pages of notes before I actually sat 
down and wrote it. A lot of that process was deconstructing what I'd been doing 
rather intuitively. 
  So essentiall
y, what it felt like before this translation along parallel learning, 
which is two rather abstract terms, that's the language that I was using internally 
when I was first thinking about the book. As if I were just taking the essence of 
one art and translat
ing it over into another and the process of writing it involved 
deconstructing what I'd been doing, somewhat abstractly into something that 
could be replicated more systematically.
  